So, in this optional module, we'll look
at the two key player problems again.
The goal of the first problem is
to identify a small set of nodes,
whose removal will create
maximum disruption.
Now, in this case, a traditional
centrality algorithm may not work,
because the optimization goal
is to break up the network.
So we need a quantitive
measure of the breakage.
If dij is the distance between nodes i and
j, then 1 over dij is
the closeness of these two nodes.
If we add the closeness of all nodes and
normalize it by the number of node pairs,
we'll get a measure of
cohesiveness as a fraction.
So, 1 minus this value is
a measure of fragmentation.
Our goal is to maximize
this fragmentation metric.
In the model terrorist network shown here,
removing the red nodes A,
B, and C will break up the network
into seven components,
with F reaching a value of 0.59.
The second key player problem, is trying
to find a group of S influencers,
which can reach a maximum
number of nodes within K steps.
The number of unique nodes reachable from
a starting node is called the reach,
of the starting node.
For this we need to adapt the concept
of reach to limit it to k steps.
We also need to adapt it to measure
the distance of an arbitrary node
from a group of nodes
between our influences.
The distance from one node to a group
of nodes can be defined as a maximum,
or average, or minimum distance,
of the node from the members of the group.
Often, the minimum
distance is a good choice.
So the distance, we could reach,
can then be through of, as the proportion
of all nodes reached by the group,
where the nodes are weighted
by the distance from the set.
And only nodes at distance
1 are given full rate.
Hence, a distance we could reach
that use a maximum value of 1,
where every outside node is adjacent to at
least one member of the set of influences.
In the network shown,
just three nodes, A, C, and D,
are sufficient to reach every other
member within just four steps.
Now this concludes this module, where we
looked at several analytic techniques and
measures to extract different
kinds of insights from a network.